# What is BNHR and SmartCT?

## BNHR

BNHR is a consulting agency that helps people create best-fit, cost-effective, and sustainable solutions to spatial & data problems using open technologies. BNHR was founded by Ben Hur S. Pintor who graduated from the University of the Philippines Diliman with a degree of BS Geodetic Engineering in 2014. In the same year, he passed the Geodetic Engineers Licensure Examination as top 7. He was a data fellow and data expert at School of Data, Senior Science Research Specialist (SSRS) at Phil-LiDAR 2: REMap, SSRS at IAMBlueCECAM: BlueWebMaps. His other individual engagements included being a computer programmer, GIS Developer and specialist, open data expert, and full stack GIS & web developer.

Currently, Ben Hur is taking up MS Geomatics Engineering (GeoInformatics) at the University of the Philippines Diliman. He is also the Chief Problem Solver for BNHR, Chief Technology and Strategy Officer for SmartCT (SmartCitiesPH, Inc.), and the Data Training Lead for the Open Knowledge Foundation (OKF). A geospatial generalist, open stuff advocate, and maptivist, he teaches others about open data and open-source, geospatial technologies, and web development.

## SmartCT (SmartCitiesPH, Inc.)

SmartCitiesPH, Inc. or simply SmartCT is a non-government organization composed of a network of public and private sectors, civic organizations, and individuals dedicated to advancing the lives of people in South East Asia (SEA) through smart city & community technology and solutions that promote openness, fairness, ethics, and sustainability. Its vision is a future that is fair, free, open & smart where people and data are at the center of any government technologies, smart city and community development. SmartCT aims to create a movement embracing openness & government technologies that are built by, with, and for, everyone.

SmartCT was founded by Kris V. Libunao. She has more than a decade of policy action research, urban planning, and strategic management consultancies. Currently, she is the Executive Director and Chief Sustainability Officer of SmartCT, improving the way smart cities and digital transformation are being developed in the Philippines and developing countries by evangelizing openness and people collaboration at the city level. She is trained under the ASEAN Smart Cities Leaders Programme of ASEAN Foundation and Data Stewardship under The Gov Lab of New York University and also serves as a Smart Sustainable Cities Instructor with IoT Academy and International Telecommunication Union Academy (ITU-Academy), Director for ICT and Cyber Relations of US-ASEAN Youth Council.
